Add Webhooks page to Token Gated Forms (#112)
getformo/docs.formo.so: features/token-gated-forms/webhooks.mdx

---
title: 'Webhooks'

> description: 'Send each new form response to an external URL as it arrives: Zapier, Make, n8n, your own server, or straight into a Slack channel.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Send each new form response to other tools as it arrives: Zapier, Make, n8n, or Slack.'
```

---

Webhooks let you react to form responses in real time. Add a webhook to a form and Formo will `POST` every new submission to the URL you choose, the moment it arrives.

- **Integrations.** Point it at Zapier, Make, n8n, or your own backend to push responses into a CRM, spreadsheet, or internal tool.
- **Slack out of the box.** Paste a Slack incoming-webhook URL and responses show up as a formatted message in your channel, with no extra setup.
- **Signed and secure.** Optionally sign every payload so your server can verify it genuinely came from Formo.

---

> ## Add a webhook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

<Steps>
  <Step title="Open form settings">
    Open your form in the builder and go to **Settings → Webhooks**.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Add the endpoint">
    Click **Add webhook** and paste your endpoint URL. Give it an optional name so it's easy to recognize later.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Keep the signing secret">
    A signing secret is generated for you. Copy it now; it's stored encrypted and never shown again. You'll use it to verify incoming requests (see [Verifying the signature](#verifying-the-signature)).
  </Step>
  <Step title="Test it">
    Click **Test** to send a sample response to your endpoint and confirm it's wired up. Then toggle the webhook on.
  </Step>
</Steps>

<Tip>A form can have up to 10 webhooks. Disable one anytime with its toggle. Disabled webhooks stop receiving responses but can still be tested.</Tip>

---

> ## Slack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Slack
```

To post responses into a Slack channel, create a [Slack incoming webhook](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) and paste its URL (it looks like `https://hooks.slack.com/services/...`). Formo detects Slack automatically and sends a formatted Block Kit message with the response's answers. No signing secret needed.

<Warning>A Slack incoming-webhook URL is itself a credential: anyone with it can post to your channel. Keep it private, and if it leaks, revoke it in Slack and generate a new one.</Warning>

---

> ## Payload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sample Payload
```

Non-Slack endpoints receive a JSON envelope:

```json
{
  "id": "evt_9f8c...",
  "type": "form.response.created",
  "created": 1767225600,
  "data": {
    "form_id": "aBcD1234",
    "form_title": "Beta signup",
    "response_id": "6f1e...",
    "submitted_at": "2026-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
    "answers": [
      { "id": "q_name", "label": "Full name", "value": "Ada" },
      { "id": "q_langs", "label": "Languages", "value": ["ts", "go"] }
    ],
    "fields": { "q_name": "Ada", "q_langs": ["ts", "go"] }
  }
}
```

`answers` keeps the order and human labels the respondent saw; `fields` is a flat `id` to `value` map that's easy to bind in automation tools. Field **ids** are stable across label edits, so key on `id`, not `label`.

### Headers

| Header | When | Meaning |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `X-Formo-Event` | always | Event type (`form.response.created`) |
| `X-Formo-Webhook-Id` | always | Which configured webhook fired |
| `X-Formo-Test` | test sends | `true`, a "Send test" rather than a real response |
| `X-Webhook-Timestamp` | when signed | Unix seconds, part of the signed material |
| `X-Webhook-Signature` | when signed | `HMAC-SHA256` over `{timestamp}.{body}`, hex |

---

> ## How the security works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Security
```

You never compare the signature to a previous or stored value. For each request you **recompute** it from that request's own timestamp + body + your secret, and compare to the header it arrived with. Done that way it matches every time for a genuine request, and fails the moment the body is tampered with. The only thing that must stay constant is your **secret**. If you regenerate it in the dialog, update it on your server too.
</Note>

Two more layers protect you and Formo:

- **Secrets are encrypted at rest** and never returned by the API. The plaintext is shown once, when you create the webhook, so copy it then.
- **Only public `http(s)` endpoints are allowed.** URLs that resolve to private, loopback, link-local, or internal-cloud addresses are rejected, so a webhook can't be used to probe internal infrastructure.
- **Slack** incoming webhooks don't use the secret. They authenticate by the secrecy of their URL, so keep the URL private and rotate it in Slack if it leaks.

> ## Verifying the signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Verifying signatures
```
